Live ScoresScheduleArchivesNews

Series

Teams

Videos

Rankings

More





MATCHESKNG vs DOL - LiveTIT vs COB - LiveDEL vs HP - LiveUP vs HAR - LiveMAH vs VID - LiveAllLive NowToday DOMESTIC

4-Day Franchise Series

Knights vs Dolphins LIVE5th Match





Titans vs Cape Cobras LIVE6th Match





Warriors vs Lions4th Match





Vijay Hazare Trophy

Delhi vs Himachal Pradesh LIVERound 1, Elite Group A and B





Uttar Pradesh vs Haryana LIVERound 2, Elite Group A and B





Maharashtra vs Vidarbha LIVERound 4, Elite Group A and B





Nagaland vs Manipur LIVERound 1, Plate





Uttarakhand vs Chandigarh LIVERound 2, Plate





Assam vs PuducherryRound 15, Plate





Sheffield Shield

New South Wales vs Tasmania4th Match





Queensland vs South Australia5th Match





Western Australia vs Victoria6th Match





INJURY TO INSULT





Maharaj ruled out of Ranchi Test with shoulder injury


by Cricbuzz Staff • Last updated on

Share Tweet



Maharaj picked up the injury on Day 2 in Pune © BCCI

South African spinner Keshav Maharaj has been ruled out of the third and final Test in Ranchi against India with a shoulder injury. Left-arm spinner George Linde has been named as his replacement.

Maharaj sustained the injury on the second day of the Pune Test while fielding. "A re-assessment ahead of the start of play this morning along with MRI results revealed that he will not be fit in time to play in the final Test match," a release from Cricket South Africa stated on Sunday (October 13), after the conclusion of the Test that South Africa lost by an innings and 137 runs.

Maharaj picked up just the one wicket in the second Test, but he scored a resilient 72 in South Africa's first innings to keep India at bay after the hosts had reduced the visitors to 162/8. He added 109 with Vernon Philander for the ninth wicket taking South Africa to 275 before they were bowled out. He then followed it up with a 22 in the second innings

"An MRI scan revealed that Keshav has sustained an injury to a muscle in his right shoulder which was strapped in order for him to bat yesterday. He was re-assess this morning, particularly with regards to bowling, and he showed significant discomfort in this latter discipline.

"Based on this morning's assessment and the findings of the scan, the medical team feel he will not be fit in time for the next Test match in six days' time. The nature and extent of the injury would mean that he will probably return to play in 14 to 21 days based on his progress during the rehabilitation phase," team doctor Ramjee Hashendra said.

The final Test of the series begins in Ranchi on Saturday with India bagging the series 2-0 already.

© Cricbuzz

Share Tweet

TAGS

Keshav Maharaj South Africa tour of India, 2019





RELATED STORIES




Markram ruled out of Ranchi Test with fractured wrist





Kohli two points away from overtaking Smith in Test rankings





South Africa grapple with experience and consistency void





With chances few and far between, Umesh makes it count in Pune





India's record-breaking sequence at home





Record-breaking India take unassailable 2-0 lead





COMMENTS





LATEST NEWS




Markram ruled out of Ranchi Test with fractured wrist

2h ago





Jozi Stars sign up Shoaib Malik for MSL 2019

2h ago





Bangladesh receive Tamim injury scare ahead of India tour

3h ago





Is Ganguly going to be a BCCI president with a difference?

4h ago





Gus Logie named interim head coach of West Indies women's team

6h ago





Will discuss Dhoni's future with selectors - Ganguly

7h ago





More News





MOBILE SITE & APPS

m.cricbuzz.com

Android

iOS





FOLLOW US ON

facebook

twitter

youtube

Pinterest





COMPANY

Careers

Advertise

Privacy Policy

Terms of Use

Cricbuzz TV Ads





© 2019 Cricbuzz.com, Times Internet Limited. All rights reserved | The Times of India | Navbharat Times





