Live ScoresScheduleArchivesNews

Series

Teams

Videos

Rankings

More





MATCHESKNG vs DOL - LiveTIT vs COB - LiveDEL vs HP - LiveUP vs HAR - LiveMAH vs VID - LiveAllLive NowToday DOMESTIC

4-Day Franchise Series

Knights vs Dolphins LIVE5th Match





Titans vs Cape Cobras LIVE6th Match





Warriors vs Lions4th Match





Vijay Hazare Trophy

Delhi vs Himachal Pradesh LIVERound 1, Elite Group A and B





Uttar Pradesh vs Haryana LIVERound 2, Elite Group A and B





Maharashtra vs Vidarbha LIVERound 4, Elite Group A and B





Nagaland vs Manipur LIVERound 1, Plate





Uttarakhand vs Chandigarh LIVERound 2, Plate





Assam vs PuducherryRound 15, Plate





Sheffield Shield

New South Wales vs Tasmania4th Match





Queensland vs South Australia5th Match





Western Australia vs Victoria6th Match





SECURITY COVER





Fed up by stringent security, Sri Lanka to reassess another Pakistan tour


by Cricbuzz Staff • Published on

Share Tweet



"We owed something to Pakistan because they are there for us, because they always helped us" - SLC President Shammi Silva © Getty

Despite having a smooth tour of Pakistan, SLC President Shammi Silva isn't too satisfied with how things panned out and isn't sure if they will be touring Pakistan again any time soon.

Due to stringent security measures, the players were asked to stay put in the team hotels in the packed schedule for matches held in Lahore and Karachi. "Players had to stay inside their hotel. I was there and though I stayed for 3-4 days, I got fed up (about it). We have to think about that and discuss with the players and support staff. We are playing the Test Championship and we want to do well in that too," Silva was quoted as saying by Island Cricket.

While stating that staying put in the hotel had its upsides in terms of team bonding and security of players, he added that the downsides far outweighed it.

"Frankly in my opinion, it was good team bonding when they are staying in the hotel without their wives. Too much of freedom is also bad for the players. But, they have to go out to do shopping, they have to eat somewhere, all those things are there. They have to go out and see the world. They can't stay inside the hotel."

Sri Lanka finished the tour with a clean sweep of the T20I series after having lost the ODIs 2-0. While stating that process of travelling to the venue for the limited overs series was exhausting, he added that it might be tough for the teams to return and go through the same process for multi-day games.

"We have to reassess and see about Test matches. We owed something to Pakistan because they are there for us, because they always helped us. We were willing to bear that up (security hassle), but the problem is how much we could bear?

"I heard security there is getting better. I don't know because we were not allowed to go out, so may be by next year we might suddenly see Australia or England come and play.

© Cricbuzz

Share Tweet

TAGS

Pakistan Sri Lanka





COMMENTS





LATEST NEWS




Markram ruled out of Ranchi Test with fractured wrist

2h ago





Jozi Stars sign up Shoaib Malik for MSL 2019

2h ago





Bangladesh receive Tamim injury scare ahead of India tour

3h ago





Is Ganguly going to be a BCCI president with a difference?

4h ago





Gus Logie named interim head coach of West Indies women's team

6h ago





Will discuss Dhoni's future with selectors - Ganguly

7h ago





More News





MOBILE SITE & APPS

m.cricbuzz.com

Android

iOS





FOLLOW US ON

facebook

twitter

youtube

Pinterest





COMPANY

Careers

Advertise

Privacy Policy

Terms of Use

Cricbuzz TV Ads





© 2019 Cricbuzz.com, Times Internet Limited. All rights reserved | The Times of India | Navbharat Times





