Live ScoresScheduleArchivesNews

Series

Teams

Videos

Rankings

More





MATCHESKNG vs DOL - StumpsTIT vs COB - StumpsWAR vs LIONS - WAR WonMUM vs JHKD - MI WonMP vs RAJ - MP WonAllLive NowToday DOMESTIC

4-Day Franchise Series

Knights vs Dolphins5th Match





Titans vs Cape Cobras6th Match





Warriors vs Lions4th Match





Vijay Hazare Trophy

Mumbai vs JharkhandRound 2, Elite Group A and B





Madhya Pradesh vs RajasthanRound 15 - Elite Group C





Tripura vs BiharRound 15 - Elite Group C





Meghalaya vs ChandigarhRound 14, Plate





Nagaland vs Arunachal PradeshRound 14, Plate





Gujarat vs Tamil NaduRound 15 - Elite Group C





Andhra vs KeralaRound 13, Elite Group A and B





Odisha vs Uttar PradeshRound 12, Elite Group A and B





Delhi vs HaryanaRound 2, Elite Group A and B





Karnataka vs GoaRound 13, Elite Group A and B





Mizoram vs SikkimRound 14, Plate





Maharashtra vs PunjabRound 12, Elite Group A and B





Delhi vs Himachal PradeshRound 1, Elite Group A and B





Uttar Pradesh vs HaryanaRound 2, Elite Group A and B





Maharashtra vs VidarbhaRound 4, Elite Group A and B





Nagaland vs ManipurRound 1, Plate





Uttarakhand vs ChandigarhRound 2, Plate





Assam vs PuducherryRound 15, Plate





VIJAY HAZARE, 2019





Railways collapse to tie match against Bengal


by Cricbuzz Staff • Published on

Share Tweet



Parthiv Patel struck a 36-ball 63 as Gujarat extended their unbeaten run in this tournament to eight games © BCCI

Ties in vogue

The Bengal vs. Railways fixture in the Vijay Hazare Trophy ended in a tie in a year which has seen several big games ending in ties, including the World Cup final. Bengal won the toss and elected to bat at the Sawai Man Singh stadium in Jaipur, and were aided by a 75-run partnership between Shreevats Goswami and Abhishek Raman at the top. However, the middle-order failed to make any significant contribution, as Bengal failed to play out their fifty overs to end with 223 on the board. Railways openers Pratham Singh and Mrunal Devdhar got their team off to a fluent start with an 82-run partnership, and it looked like they would cruise to a clinical win. However, after the wicket of Pratham Singh (91), a dramatic collapse ensued as the Railways lost 6 wickets for 29 runs to end the game in a dramatic tie with a run-out off the final ball.

Nail-biters

Delhi defeated Punjab by 5 runs in a closely-fought encounter in Baroda, after Punjab asked them to bat first. After the top-order failed, the middle-order resisted but couldn't notch up a significant score, and it was left up to No. 8 Lalit Yadav to save Delhi the blushes with a fifty. Siddarth Kaul was the pick of with bowlers with 5 wickets for 37 runs. After a good start to the chase, there was a mini-collapse but Punjab showed resistance through a 90-run stand between Anmolpreet Singh and Sharad Lumba. After the wicket of Lumba, however, Punjab lost 5 wickets for just 30 runs to concede the match by 5 runs.

Baroda defeated Himachal Pradesh in a nail-biter of a contest in Vadodara by 2 wickets. After Baroda won the toss and opted to bowl, their decision was proved right almost immediately after the 57-run opening stand, as the visitors lost their remaining wickets for just 104 runs and were skittled out for a sub-par 161. Baroda's chase, however, was extremely poorly executed, with no batsman showing enough character to stay put at the crease. In the end, No. 3 Swapnil Singh saved Baroda the blushes at home, scoring an unbeaten 66, and stitched a 30-run 9th wicket stand with Rishi Arothe to drag the hosts across the line by 2 wickets.

Nagaland defeated Chandigarh by one wicket in a thrilling encounter in Dehradun. After being asked to bat first, Chandigarh's batsmen put up a poor show with the willow, and it was left up to the lower-order to do some face-saving for the team. The tail obliged, adding 103 runs for the 8th and 9th wicket, including a gutsy 55 by Ankit Kaushik and a stoic 49 by Bipul Sharma to drag Chandigarh to 220. The chase began rather shakily as Nagaland were reduced to 20-3 but Shrikant Mundhe and opener Aosashi Longchar added 102 for the 5th wicket before another collapse ensued and reduced them to 213 for 9. Eventually, Shresth Nirmohi's five-wicket haul went in vain as Temjentoshi and Lemtur managed to push Nagaland across the line in a stunning one-wicket win.

One-man shows

Priyam Garg, who contributed 120 runs to Uttar Pradesh's total of 211 against Vidarbha, outscored what the rest of his teammates put together as well as the opposition team, as Uttar Pradesh crushed Vidarbha by 109 runs in Vadodara. The knock was clearly an outlier, with the next best score in the match being notched up by the opposition's No. 9 batsman, Darshan Nalkande (26). The only other UP batsman who got into double-figures happened to be Shivam Mavi (20), who stitched together a crucial 65-run stand with Garg.

The Uttar Pradesh vs. Vidarbha clash also witnessed a stunning spell of bowling from Saurabh Kumar to complement Priyam Garg's hundred, as he ripped through the Vidarbha batting line-up, with a conspicuous 6 wickets for 25 runs on a scorecard that didn't see any other bowler pick up more than 3 wickets. Kumar's early dismissal of the experienced Wasim Jaffer was a crucial point in the chase, as it exposed the less seasoned middle-order and brought about a panicked collapse.

Steamrollers

Puducherry vs. Manipur: In a no-contest of a league match in Dehradun that lasted all of 46.2 overs across innings, Vinay Kumar and Sagar Udeshi ripped the heart out of Manipur's batting line-up, who folded for 109 in 30.1 overs. Puducherry didn't need to break a sweat during the run-chase, powered by a violent 43-ball 67 from Arun Karthik, as raced to the target in 97 balls, with the game lasting only marginally longer than a completed T20 game.

Gujarat vs. Jammu and Kashmir: Gujarat continued their unbeaten run in the Vijay Hazare Trophy, after coming up against Jammu and Kashmir at the KL Saini Ground in Jaipur. After Gujarat won the toss and opted to bowl, Jammu and Kashmir's middle-order contributed with a slew of half-centuries to set a steep target of 280. Gujarat, though, were clinical in their chase and made a mockery of the J&K bowling, with Parthiv Patel (63 off 36) and Bhargav Merai (70* off 56) pummelling half-centuries and Priyank Panchal blazing away to a fluent 135 (off 122 balls).

Assam vs. Meghalaya: Assam steamrolled Meghalaya by 6 wickets in Dehradun, after flattening their batting line-up (100 all-out), with Dwaraka Ravi Teja (51*) outscoring the remainder of his teammates combined. Roshan Alam picked up 4 wickets but Arup Das was the pick of the bowlers for ripping through the top-order with his new-ball spell. Assam's chase didn't get off to a smooth start but Sibasankar Roy, the skipper, was in a no-nonsense mood and struck a 54-ball 69 to take his team through within 18 overs.

© Cricbuzz

Share Tweet

TAGS

Vijay Hazare Trophy 2019-20





RELATED STORIES




Yashasvi Jaiswal becomes youngest to register List-A double ton





Azim Kazi's all-round brilliance helps Maharashtra enter Top 5





Samson's record double ton powers Kerala to massive win





Vijay Hazare Highlights: Delhi lose despite Rana's allround efforts





Karnataka withstand Dube assault to clinch thriller





Vijay Hazare Highlights: Tamil Nadu stretch winning run to seven games





COMMENTS





LATEST NEWS




UAE hit with match-fixing suspensions ahead of T20 Qualifiers

3h ago





Bopara to leave Essex after 18 years

3h ago





Ahsan Ali, Mohammad Hasnain help Sindh secure narrow win

4h ago





Objections raised over MPCA selection committees

4h ago





Yashasvi Jaiswal becomes youngest to register List-A double ton

4h ago





Chris Tremain pens three-year deal with Sydney Thunder

16h ago





More News





MOBILE SITE & APPS

m.cricbuzz.com

Android

iOS





FOLLOW US ON

facebook

twitter

youtube

Pinterest





COMPANY

Careers

Advertise

Privacy Policy

Terms of Use

Cricbuzz TV Ads





© 2019 Cricbuzz.com, Times Internet Limited. All rights reserved | The Times of India | Navbharat Times





