Live ScoresScheduleArchivesNews

Series

Teams

Videos

Rankings

More





MATCHESKNG vs DOL - LiveTIT vs COB - LiveDEL vs HP - LiveUP vs HAR - LiveMAH vs VID - LiveAllLive NowToday DOMESTIC

4-Day Franchise Series

Knights vs Dolphins LIVE5th Match





Titans vs Cape Cobras LIVE6th Match





Warriors vs Lions4th Match





Vijay Hazare Trophy

Delhi vs Himachal Pradesh LIVERound 1, Elite Group A and B





Uttar Pradesh vs Haryana LIVERound 2, Elite Group A and B





Maharashtra vs Vidarbha LIVERound 4, Elite Group A and B





Nagaland vs Manipur LIVERound 1, Plate





Uttarakhand vs Chandigarh LIVERound 2, Plate





Assam vs PuducherryRound 15, Plate





Sheffield Shield

New South Wales vs Tasmania4th Match





Queensland vs South Australia5th Match





Western Australia vs Victoria6th Match





EQUAL SAY FOR ALL





One vote and equal say for all - Vinod Rai responds to Edulji's claims


by Cricbuzz Staff • Last updated on

Share Tweet



"We all have the right to give our views and we all have one vote to exercise that right. It's all equally divided," said Vinod Rai. © Agencies

Vinod Rai, the Committee of Administrators chief, has hit back at his colleague Diana Edulji's remark that her views were not taken into consideration by the Supreme Court-appointed body as she is always in the minority.

Edulji, in an interview with The Indian Express, had said, "Maybe they (referring to CoA members) think of me as too junior a person who doesn't know much about cricket administration, but my views are always in the minority. Now, since there are three members in the CoA, 2-1, 2-1, 2-1 is the norm of the CoA...

"I'm (upset) because this is not the way the CoA is supposed to function. People have different views and we must be able to accept certain views of the minority also. When we were 1-1, the other opinion was taken and now it's always 2-1."

Responding to the remarks, Rai told Cricbuzz, "We all have the right to give our views and we all have one vote to exercise that right. It's all equally divided. In that case, it doesn't matter how the final decision is reached, whether it is 2-1 or 3-0."

Edulji had also said that there wasn't uniformity in the manner in which state associations were treated by the CoA for the election process and that different yardstick were used for different states. She also pointed at the manner in which Manipur Cricket Association was disqualified from the electoral roll for the upcoming BCCI elections, as its representative, Rajkumar Imo Singh, was discharging a public duty (Congress MLA), while Delhi and District Cricket Association wasn't pulled up for the same when more than 25 complaints were received against their representation. The main point of contention was that the association had OP Sharma, an MLA from Delhi, as the treasurer of the body.

However, Rai countered that allegation by stating that, "It's quite clear. For Manipur, the nominee was in violation of the rules. That was not the case with DDCA's nominee."

Edulji had claimed that CoA had allowed three states - Bihar, Uttarakhand and Odisha - an extension to register their constitution, while the same luxury was not afforded to the likes of TNCA, HCA and MCA. Denying a biased approach towards it, Rai said, "They were given the same extension like every other association to comply with the reforms and have their constitutions registered. The last date for all associations was the same."

He also deferred the point over the exclusion of the three government bodies - Services, Railways and Indian Universities - from the electoral roll by adding "That was a call taken by the Electoral Officer and not the CoA."

© Cricbuzz

Share Tweet

TAGS

India





COMMENTS





LATEST NEWS




Markram ruled out of Ranchi Test with fractured wrist

2h ago





Jozi Stars sign up Shoaib Malik for MSL 2019

2h ago





Bangladesh receive Tamim injury scare ahead of India tour

4h ago





Is Ganguly going to be a BCCI president with a difference?

4h ago





Gus Logie named interim head coach of West Indies women's team

6h ago





Will discuss Dhoni's future with selectors - Ganguly

7h ago





More News





MOBILE SITE & APPS

m.cricbuzz.com

Android

iOS





FOLLOW US ON

facebook

twitter

youtube

Pinterest





COMPANY

Careers

Advertise

Privacy Policy

Terms of Use

Cricbuzz TV Ads





© 2019 Cricbuzz.com, Times Internet Limited. All rights reserved | The Times of India | Navbharat Times





