Live ScoresScheduleArchivesNews

Series

Teams

Videos

Rankings

More





MATCHESKNG vs DOL - LiveTIT vs COB - LiveDEL vs HP - LiveUP vs HAR - LiveMAH vs VID - LiveAllLive NowToday DOMESTIC

4-Day Franchise Series

Knights vs Dolphins LIVE5th Match





Titans vs Cape Cobras LIVE6th Match





Warriors vs Lions4th Match





Vijay Hazare Trophy

Delhi vs Himachal Pradesh LIVERound 1, Elite Group A and B





Uttar Pradesh vs Haryana LIVERound 2, Elite Group A and B





Maharashtra vs Vidarbha LIVERound 4, Elite Group A and B





Nagaland vs Manipur LIVERound 1, Plate





Uttarakhand vs Chandigarh LIVERound 2, Plate





Assam vs PuducherryRound 15, Plate





Sheffield Shield

New South Wales vs Tasmania4th Match





Queensland vs South Australia5th Match





Western Australia vs Victoria6th Match





SOUTH AFRICA WOMEN TOUR OF INDIA, 2019





South Africa Women play for pride in dead rubber


by Cricbuzz Staff • Last updated on

Share Tweet



The number of extras conceded in the second game, especially, would be a matter of grave concern for India. © Getty

Even on a day that South Africa pulled up their socks to pose India the challenge of their best ODI chase thus far, they ended up on the wrong side of the result. Their best show with the bat in the ongoing series thus far just wasn't good enough - such has been India's dominance on home soil. After Priya Punia and Jemimah Rodrigues's inspired victory in the series opener, India sealed the deal courtesy half-century knocks from Mithali Raj and Punam Raut, with finishing touches from vice-captain Harmanpreet Kaur on Friday.

Now, for South Africa to up their game one more time and wrap up what has been an arduous tour with a consolation win in the third and final ODI at Vadodara on Monday (October 14).

Just like in the final game of the preceding T20I series, South Africa's batting unit clicked in unison to help them to 247. But unlike in Surat, the bowlers couldn't capitalise on the early breakthroughs and let the game, and series, slip. To make matters worse, their fielding has come under the scanner too. An all-round show, inspired by the one in Surat, is what can save South Africa from the blushes of a whitewash.

It wasn't an ideal game for India on Friday either. The number of extras conceded in the second game, especially, would be a matter of grave concern for the team. The fielding lapses in the latter half of their bowling innings did have India chasing a stiff target. In the batting department, losing wickets in a heap in the middle overs allowed South Africa a comeback opportunity until Harmanpreet stepped up in her true-blue style to close out the game with two overs to spare. Raj admittedly wanted India to do better than that in all three departments. The hosts, undoubtedly, would be eyeing a clean sweep to boost their morale ahead of an away Championship series that's coming up against West Indies in November.

It's easier said than done though, for India have lately been guilty of letting their guard down in the third game after winning the series with the first two. Perhaps that's where their next biggest challenge lies. Fortunately, it's not a Championship game, so they can afford the freedom to experiment with those warming the bench, but it's imperative that they do so without taking their foot off the pedal.

When: India vs South Africa, 3rd ODI on Monday, October 14 at 9 am IST | 3:30 am GMT

Where:Reliance Cricket Stadium, Vadodara

What to expect:The humidity levels are dropping in Vadodara, but it's another hot day in store for the two teams with temperatures hovering in the late 30s. The pitch has been fantastic for batting and should continue to produce runs.

Team News

India:With series in the bag already, this could be the home team's chance to explore their bench strength. Pooja Vastrakar, who made a late entry into the squad as Smriti Mandhana's injury replacement, could get a game in place of either of the two allrounders - Shikha Pandey or Jhulan Goswami. Mansi Joshi, who's warmed the bench thus far, could also get a look in in case India decide to rest both their regular seam-bowling all-rounders.

Probable XI:Priya Punia, Jemimah Rodrigues, Punam Raut, Mithali Raj (C), Harmanpreet Kaur, Deepti Sharma,Taniya Bhatia (wk), Pooja Vastrakar, Mansi Joshi, Poonam Yadav, Ekta Bisht.

South Africa: Despite the result not going in their favour the visitors didn't fare too poorly in the second game, except for in the fielding department. They could likely stick with the same combination.

Probable XI:Lizelle Lee, Laura Wolvaardt, Trisha Chetty (wk), Mignon du Preez, Lara Goodall, Sune Luus (C), Marizanne Kapp, Shabnim Ismail, Ayabonga Khaka, Tumi Sekhukhune, Nondumiso Shangase

© Cricbuzz

Share Tweet

TAGS

South Africa Women tour of India, 2019 India Women South Africa Women





RELATED STORIES




Spinners script first clean sweep since 2016





Raj, Raut star as India take ODI series





Dented South Africa aim to get level





Clinical India take 1-0 lead with comfortable win





Mandhana injury puts India's batting in focus





Lee, Luus conspire to hand India big loss in Surat dead rubber





COMMENTS





LATEST NEWS




Markram ruled out of Ranchi Test with fractured wrist

2h ago





Jozi Stars sign up Shoaib Malik for MSL 2019

2h ago





Bangladesh receive Tamim injury scare ahead of India tour

3h ago





Is Ganguly going to be a BCCI president with a difference?

4h ago





Gus Logie named interim head coach of West Indies women's team

6h ago





Will discuss Dhoni's future with selectors - Ganguly

7h ago





More News





MOBILE SITE & APPS

m.cricbuzz.com

Android

iOS





FOLLOW US ON

facebook

twitter

youtube

Pinterest





COMPANY

Careers

Advertise

Privacy Policy

Terms of Use

Cricbuzz TV Ads





© 2019 Cricbuzz.com, Times Internet Limited. All rights reserved | The Times of India | Navbharat Times





