European Soccer News


				European Soccer News





Menu


			Skip to content 			Home

Contact





Tips for betting on the Premier League: who are favorites to win next season?


		 			socrates / 19 June, 2013

	 	 		 1 Flares 1 Flares ×

Manchester United won the title last season with surprising ease, as City failed to get out of second gear and Chelsea imploded as they have every season recently. However since the finish of the season we have seen the shock departure of Sir Alex Ferguson from the United hot seat, Joe Mourinho’s return to Stamford Bridge and the sacking of Roberto Mancini at Eastlands, all of which mean things will be very different next season. So what does this mean for those football betting fans gambling on the winners of next season’s title?

Well, perhaps surprisingly, the changes at Old Trafford have not seen United lose their position as favorites with the bookmakers – although to be fair there is little between the odds for them and City at many sports betting sites. Ferguson’s replacement, David Moyes, is a fine manager, but he does not have the experience of trophy winning at the top level that either Mourinho or Manuel Pellegrino – who is expected to be the new Manchester City manager – have. United’s defense of their title would seem to hinge on how quickly he finds his feet at the club, and the uncertainty over this and other issues may make some football fans prefer to hold off on their bets and play at an online casino for the moment.

Indeed, even if they don’t playing football games like Soccer Safari at casino sites is becoming more popular all the time – especially now that mobile casino apps let you play them wherever you are, using your phone. Soccer Safari is one such game that has really caught on, thanks to the combination a real football theme, with humor that it offers. It features animals like lions, cheetahs, warthogs and buffalo playing each other in their own World Cup, and has great video animation to bring this concept to life.

Throw in maximum jackpots of $8000 and you have a great way of getting a fun fix of football and betting on your phone, from one of the mobilecasino.mobi sites that feature the game.

Related Articles:

Premier League’s 5 Most Underrated Players

First Round of Premier League 2011/2012

10 Worst Soccer Transfers in Premier League 2010/2011

Premier League’s Top 9 Players to Watch During 2011/12





	 		19 June, 2013 in socrates.





Related posts





Premier League’s 5 Most Underrated Players





First Round of Premier League 2011/2012





10 Worst Soccer Transfers in Premier League 2010/2011





Post navigation


	 		 Page 1 of 11





Leave a Reply


				 					Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment

Name *

Email *

Website





	 		 			Copyright © 2014 eurosoccerfans.com - All Rights Reserved ​



1 Flares Twitter 1 Facebook 0 Google+ 0 1 Flares ×





