European Soccer News


				European Soccer News





Menu


			Skip to content 			Home

Contact





American Soccer Players in Europe


		 			socrates / 2 June, 2011

	 	 		 4 Flares 4 Flares ×

Let’s take a look at the American soccer players out there in Europe playing the biggest sport in the world at the biggest stage. We will look at American Soccer Player at the three major leagues in Europe, the Italian, Spanish and English.

Spain

Spain is without doubt one of the best Soccer leagues in the world and their league battles against the English league on wich is really the best. Hard to compare the two in my opinion since Spain has the best team in the world while there is a big drop in quality after the top 2 teams.

In Spain there is only one American Soccer player, and he is considered one of the most talented players ever came out from the U.S.

Name: Jozy Altidore

Age: 21

Club: Villareal (On loan to Bursapor)

Position: Striker

Opinion: Regarded as a major talent in the U.S. and always there fighting for a spot in the starting lineup for the United States. Seems to me that he is looking for a new club, where he gets playing time and can develope. Right now on loan to Bursapor and is a rotation player in their squad, has played 11 games and made one goal. He may have to take a step down and play at a lower level to both get playing and time and improve.

England

The English Premier League has plenty of Americans Soccer players.

Name: Clint Dempsey

Age: 28

Club: Fulham

Position: Striker / Winger

Opinion: Donovan is great, but I would claim Dempsey is the best American Soccer player. A regular in Fulham and a full 12 league goals this season, I wonder if big clubs comes knocking at Craven Cottage doors this summer.

Name: Eddie Johnson

Age: 27

Club: Fulham (loan to Preston North End)

Position: Striker

Opinion: Do not believe that his places is in the Premier League. He should it to Scotland, believes he fits in well in a team there.

Name: Brad Friedel

Age: 40

Club: Aston Villa

Position: Goalkeeper

Opinion: A terribly underrated goalie. Most likely this will be his final season, but you never know. Stopped playing for the U.S. national team in 2005, otherwise he would have challenged Howard.

Name: Brad Guzan

Age: 26

Club: Aston Villa (on loan to Hull)

Position: Goalkeeper

Opinion: Can he fill the shoes after Friedel? I think currently there, he has done a pretty good time in Hull and has not reached the age where the best goalie just yet.

Name: Marcus Hahnemann

Age: 38

Club: Wolverhampton

Position: Goalkeeper

Opinion: Talk about the U.S. has a lot of great goalies, although Hahnemann right now is not the first choice of the Wolves, for it is the very talented Welshman Hennessey. Possibly it is the last season in Europe.

Name: Stuart Holden

Age: 25

Club: Bolton

Position: Midfielder

Opinion: Has done a really good season at Bolton, and wonder if he will be taking the next step in his career, after the summer. Was not selected in the starting 11 for the U.S. before this season, but everything else would be a joke now.

Name: Tim Howard

Age: 32

Club: Everton

Position: Goalkeeper

Opinion: First Goalkeeper in the U.S. and Everton, a underrated goalie in my opinion. He might not be a world class goalie, but definitely a very good goalkeeper.

Name: Eric Lichaj

Age: 22

Club: Aston Villa (on loan at Leeds)

Position: Defender

Opinion: In a few years or so I think Lichaj will be a starting player in the U.S. national team, has done well in Leeds and will surely fight for a place in the starting 11 of Aston Villa for next season.

Name: Jonathan Spector

Age: 25

Club: West Ham

Position: Defender

Opinion: His team got relegated from the Premiership this year. Has not been 100% regular this season, nor in the U.S. national team. It will not hurt him to go down to a lower division and get plenty of playing time.

Name: Zak White Bread

Age: 27

Club: Norwich

Position: Defender

Opinion: Norwich just went up to the the Premier League, but I really wonder if White Bread will hold his place? It is very possible that he does, but one must not forget it’s a big difference between the Championship and Premier League.

Name: Robbie Findley

Age: 25

Club: Nottingham Forest

Position: Striker

Opinion: Left the MLS at the end of 2010 and his arrival in England could have started better, he was injured almost immediately and missed large parts of the spring season.

Name: Mike Grella

Age: 24

Club: Leeds (on loan to Swindon)

Position: Striker

Opinion: Grella should try a new club so he gets playing time and perhaps could develop into the talent he was considered at one time.

Name: Anton Peterlin

Age: 24

Club: Plymouth Argyle

Position: Midfielder

Opinion: Totally unknown in the United States when he last season, signed with Everton from the Ventura County Fusion, but after a rather mediocre season in the reserves Everton chose not to renew his contract. Instead Peterlin moved to Plymouth where he is considered to be a first team player.

Name: Frank Šimek

Age: 26

Club: Carlisle United

Position: Defender

Opinion: in 2007, he was actually selected to the squad for the U.S team, today he is not even close. Although I have heard and read that he seems to do really well in his current club team.

Italy

The Italian league has dropped a lot in recent years and I am not even sure if is better than the German Bundesliga. There is only one American Soccer player in Italy and he is currently on loan at Twente in the Dutch league.

Name: Oguchi Onyewu

Age: 29

Club: Milan (on loan at Twente)

Position: Defender

Other: Onyewu was king in the World Cup in South Africa and was recruited to Milan, but was loaned out to Twente. His future is uncertain, Onyewu may have to make move to a different club to get some real playing time.

I also want to also add an outsider who finally got a chance to join the U.S. squad for the Gold Cup tournament. Alejandro Bedoya is a player I want to add because he is simply a great player. He is currently playing in Sweden for the club Orebro SK. Hopefully he will get some playing time during the tournament and show what kind of player he is. In my opinion he is good enough for the starting 11 of the U.S. national team.

Related Articles:

10 Worst Soccer Transfers in Premier League 2010/2011





	 		2 June, 2011 in socrates.





Related posts


	 		 			 			 				10 Worst Soccer Transfers in Premier League 2010/2011





Post navigation


	 		 Page 1 of 11





Leave a Reply


				 					Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment

Name *

Email *

Website





	 		 			Copyright © 2014 eurosoccerfans.com - All Rights Reserved ​



4 Flares Twitter 1 Facebook 2 Google+ 1 4 Flares ×





