European Soccer News


				European Soccer News





Menu


			Skip to content 			Home

Contact





Top 10 Premier League Transfers of 2010/2011


		 			socrates / 24 May, 2011

	 	 		 1 Flares 1 Flares ×

(1) Javier Hernandez, Man Utd – £ 6m

Without this little striker Man Utd would not have won the league. A fantastic first season that promises more. He made an huge impact, already this year. Undoubtedly, a player with many years ahead. Like the players that Man Utd needed. Quite simply the perfect transfer.

(2), Ben Foster, Birmingham – £ 6m

Probably the perfect goalkeeper for a team fighting relegation in the Premier League. Relatively inexpensive, Foster has saved countless of points for Birmingham in the league and with his match-winning effort at Wembley, he secured both the League Cup and European cup games to Birmingham.

(3), Yaya Toure, Man City – £ 24m

Not just any budget acquisition, but on the other side Man City has its own economic logic. The great player has grown up to be Man City’s special big game-player, a perfect link in midfield. Significant in the league but even more clearly, it was Toure who shot the FA Cup to Man City.

(4) DJ Campbell, Blackpool – £ 1.5 m

Was on loan at Blackpool last season and was instrumental in their promotion campaign. Bought permanently this year, Campbell has continued to make important goal for Blackpool, not least in the match against Bolton. Impressive for a new striker in the Premiership.

(5) David Silva, Man City – £ 25m

Silva has quickly put to shame the question that existed as to whether he could play in the Premiership. A major link-up player from Man City’s defensive and offensive line.

(6), Raul Meireles, Liverpool – £ 11.5 m

Has been good in the worst of times, and has been fantastic in the best of times. A really solid transfer to a more than reasonable price. Had problems initially where he often played out of position, but has grown to be an anchor in Liverpool’s midfield and key in the team’s shape-up in the spring.

(7) Peter Odemwingie, West Brom – £ 0.5m

A quick, witty and technical striker who won many points for West Brom and probably been the difference between the -West Brom and this season’s more stable West Brom who saved new contract with a number of matches remaining. A real bargain as well.

(8) Rafael van der Vaart, Tottenham – £ 8m

The big coup at the transfer deadline day. Managed to inspire Spurs to new heights during the season’s first half and there was talk of him as a form of Cantona transfer. But unlike Cantona the Dutchman fell slightly away from the high level when the season entered its decisive phase.

(9) Adel Taarabt, Queens Park Rangers – £ 1m

Would you rank the transfers completely in economic value for the club, this is probably England’s best. He was behind QPR’s league winning promotion push in the Championship, and The Hoops are back in the Premier League.

(10), Titus Bramble, Sunderland – £ 1m

Titus Bramble has for me always been seen as a shaky defender. Not so this season where he has been one of Sunderland defensive rocks. The old man Steve Bruce saw something in Bramble as the rest of us mortals, was simply blind to.

Outsiders:

Luis Suarez, Liverpool – £ 23m

Chris Smalling, Man Utd – £ 10m

Ishmael Tioté, Newcastle – £ 3.5m

Jonathan Walters, Stoke – £ 2.75m

Stephen Hunt, Wolves – £ 3m

What do you think?





Related Articles:

Top 5 of Jimmy Bullard





	 		24 May, 2011 in socrates.





Related posts


	 		 			 			 				Top 5 of Jimmy Bullard





Post navigation


	 		 Page 1 of 11





Leave a Reply


				 					Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment

Name *

Email *

Website





	 		 			Copyright © 2014 eurosoccerfans.com - All Rights Reserved ​



1 Flares Twitter 0 Facebook 1 Google+ 0 1 Flares ×





