European Soccer News


				European Soccer News





Menu


			Skip to content 			Home

Contact





Preview FC Barcelona vs Manchester United UEFA Champions League Final


		 			socrates / 27 May, 2011

	 	 		 0 Flares 0 Flares ×

We are less than 24 hours away from the UEFA Champions League final and it is truly an amazing night that awaits Manchester United and FC Barcelona. It is also a very exciting night for soccer fans all over the world when the two undoubtedly best teams in the world this year face each other in the final of the biggest sports tournament of the world.

Wembley is a special place for both Barcelona and Man Utd who meet tomorrow evening’s finals of the Champions League.

Not only was it there both clubs won their first titles in the European Cup – Man Utd 1968 and Barcelona 1992. It is also the stadium where both clubs dealt with their own ghosts and history.

For Manchester United it was their first European title and only 10 years after Munich plane crash. Against Benfica at Wembley, Man Utd with- Best, Law and Charlton Manchester United won for their fallen team mates.

For Barcelona, it was one of the first steps out of Real Madrid’s enormous shadow. It was also the start of the start of the modern Barcelona and the football philosophy we see the fruits of today.

Tomorrow both clubs return to Wembley and creating new history.

Man Utd are in it for them a rather unusual position to go into a game as the underdogs – Barcelona on the other enters as the clear favorites.

This probably fits United very well, and like stated earlier Manchester United’s strengths (counter attacks) is Barcelona’s weakness and Sir Alex Ferguson is very well aware of that.

Inter managed to beat Barcelona at the San Siro in the least year final, and the Barcelona squad with Pep Guardiola definitively are looking for revenge of their mediocre performance in the last years exit match.

The key factors in this final will be to be compact defensively and hope for a brilliant individual performance of an attacking player. The match within the match will be between Xavi , Iniesta , Messi against Giggs , Park ,Rooney.

Who is going to be the game decider you ask? Javier Hernandez.





Related Articles:

Wayne Rooney leads Manchester United to victory

The Battle of Britain – Chelsea VS. Manchester United

Dalglish avoid punishment despite United’s protest

Barcelona Real Madrid game controversy





	 		27 May, 2011 in socrates.





Related posts


	 		 			 			 				Dalglish avoid punishment despite United’s protest





Wayne Rooney leads Manchester United to victory





The Battle of Britain – Chelsea VS. Manchester United





Post navigation


	 		 Page 1 of 11





Leave a Reply


				 					Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *

Comment

Name *

Email *

Website





	 		 			Copyright © 2014 eurosoccerfans.com - All Rights Reserved ​



0 Flares Twitter 0 Facebook 0 Google+ 0 0 Flares ×





