

Badminton Accident

Badminton accident? Yes, quiet possible. There are many ways of
badminton accidents happening.

  --
  --

The chief culprits are improper shoes, playing surface, mistake by
players in posture or stroke execution and finally freak accidents,
which take everyone by surprise.
Badminton accidents can happen when APPROPRIATE SHOES ARE NOT WORN
resulting in less friction between the shoes and the playing surface
making the player slip and fall, sustaining injuries. It can result in
rupture of Achilles tendon, the main tendon that anchors the foot to the
knee joint, and the most powerful tendon in the body. When it happens,
the player will not be able to use his ankle till it heals. It has to be
repositioned with the bone and the player in plaster cast till it
completely heals.
Similarly, BADMINTON ACCIDENT can be in the form of knee injuries, like
meniscal tear, cruciate ligament tear, fracture of patella (knee cap),
hemarthrosis (collection of blood inside knee joint) when a player
falls.
Badminton accidents can be in the form of injuries like lumbosacral
strain, sacroiliac joint strain and lumbar disc prolapse. Again, they
result from falling during playing. Similarly, badminton accidents in
the form of fractures of the hand bones, forearm bones (radius, ulna),
arm bone (humerus), shoulder dislocation and collar bone fracture can
occur during falling while playing.
As if the above are not enough, frequently we hear of freak accidents
with badminton, where, unforeseen types of injuries occur to players in
the most tragic manner.
There are reports of smashed shuttles damaging the opponent's eye. It
results in damage to the cornea (black of the eye), conjunctiva, retina
(vision screen) and even rupture of the eye globe. DAMAGE TO THE RETINA
CAN RESULT IN TOTAL BLINDNESS
Such an eye accident has happened to one Mr.Rajkumar, a badminton player
at the state level in India. Today, he lives in near total blindness
struggling to make his ends meet. In India, where support and
sponsorships to sports as such is poor, it can be a very tragic end to a
sportsperson unless he is careful while playing.
Another type of freak accidents occur when the head of the racket comes
apart from the shaft and hits the opponent resulting in injury. Such an
incident happened sometime ago when players were provided with an
apparent substandard steel racket. The player got head injury and died.
Eye, teeth and facial injuries can also occur if such an accident
occurs.
Head, facial, teeth and eye injuries can also occur when
misunderstanding between doubles players cause them swinging their
rackets injuring their partners. Finally, off court badminton accidents
IN THE FORM OF STRESS FRACTURES occur when players overenthusiastically
weight train themselves inappropriately.

 