
Badminton World Championships

The Badminton World Championships are always an exciting and thrilling
event. This is an event that can be enjoyed by all, whether you are a
novice player, never played the sport at all or professional pining to
get in on the action.

  --
  --

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Watching or reading about the Badminton World Championships is in fact
  how many people begin to take an interest in the great sport of
  badminton. It has truly become responsible in part for the recognition
  of Badminton as a true competitive and challenging sport, and not just
  a back yard game to play amongst friends and children.
  What can you expect to see at the Badminton World Championships? There
  is a great deal of badminton that includes men's singles, men's
  doubles, women's singles, women's doubles as well as mixed doubles.
  You will also have the chance to see a new and exciting place if your
  plans include traveling to the venues to see the Badminton World
  Championships. Many of the host countries and cities have a wide
  variety of tourism and old world history to share with their visitors,
  not to mention the different and beautiful landscapes.
  The Badminton World Championships in the past has been held only
  bi-annually but has changed in 2006 to become an exciting annual event
  that will be held in new places all over the world. The only break that
  the Badminton World Federation will take from organizing this event
  yearly is to not schedule the Badminton World Championships every four
  years. The reason for not having it every four years is to give players
  and audiences the chance to see the best badminton players in the world
  play in the Olympics.
  The competitors of the Badminton World Championships come from China,
  Indonesia, Denmark, Canada, United States, England, Malaysia, KOrea,
  France and Switzerland just to name a few. There is no restriction on
  what country a player can come from as it is the World Championships.
  The Badminton World Championships started in 1977 and first took place
  in Sweden, since then there have been a host of beautiful cities and
  countries to host this worldly event. Winning a medal at the World
  Championships of Badminton is a prestigious and honorable event. The
  players who have won medals for their countries are honored and
  privileged much the same as an Olympic medalist.
  The Badminton World Championships offer the same medals as the Olympics
  in the sense of Gold, Silver and Bronze. There are 16 different
  countries that have held the honor of winning at least a Bronze medal
  in the Badminton World Championships. Most of the medals have been won
  by countries in Asia and Europe with Americas and Oceania bringing in a
  few each.
  THIS YEAR, 2007, THE BADMINTON WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS WILL BE HELD IN
  KUALA LUMPUR AT THE PUTRA INDOOR STADIUM NATIONAL SPORTS COMPLEX FROM
  AUGUST 13TH THROUGH THE 19TH. This stadium is located in the town of
  Bukit Jalil.
  Malaysia is a great place to visit and to go to see the Badminton World
  Championships would be an exciting and historic occasion. It is only
  second to watching the Olympic Badminton games and often includes the
  same competitors as they are truly the best in the world.

  