Live ScoresScheduleArchivesNews

Series

Teams

Videos

Rankings

More





MATCHESKNG vs DOL - StumpsTIT vs COB - StumpsWAR vs LIONS - WAR WonMUM vs JHKD - MI WonMP vs RAJ - MP WonAllLive NowToday DOMESTIC

4-Day Franchise Series

Knights vs Dolphins5th Match





Titans vs Cape Cobras6th Match





Warriors vs Lions4th Match





Vijay Hazare Trophy

Mumbai vs JharkhandRound 2, Elite Group A and B





Madhya Pradesh vs RajasthanRound 15 - Elite Group C





Tripura vs BiharRound 15 - Elite Group C





Meghalaya vs ChandigarhRound 14, Plate





Nagaland vs Arunachal PradeshRound 14, Plate





Gujarat vs Tamil NaduRound 15 - Elite Group C





Andhra vs KeralaRound 13, Elite Group A and B





Odisha vs Uttar PradeshRound 12, Elite Group A and B





Delhi vs HaryanaRound 2, Elite Group A and B





Karnataka vs GoaRound 13, Elite Group A and B





Mizoram vs SikkimRound 14, Plate





Maharashtra vs PunjabRound 12, Elite Group A and B





Delhi vs Himachal PradeshRound 1, Elite Group A and B





Uttar Pradesh vs HaryanaRound 2, Elite Group A and B





Maharashtra vs VidarbhaRound 4, Elite Group A and B





Nagaland vs ManipurRound 1, Plate





Uttarakhand vs ChandigarhRound 2, Plate





Assam vs PuducherryRound 15, Plate





BCCI ELECTIONS





The old guard, a new order


by Aayush Puthran • Last updated on

Share Tweet



The old guard walks in to the BCCI office © AFP

On Monday (October 14), the day of the nominations, N Srinivasan, Rajiv Shukla and Niranjan Shah got off their car outside the main gate of the Wankhede Stadium and walked the rest of the 20 meters or so to enter the BCCI offices. The old guard was back. And it looked like they wanted all present to know that they were. Maybe it was them posturing, quite literally, upon their return to their erstwhile bastion of power. But they weren't there by themselves though. Instead, after fighting to regain their lost power from the flanks for over three years, Srinivasan & Co were now flanking Sourav Ganguly, the soon-to-be new man in power.

For all of Ganguly's reputation and accolades as a cricketer, he finds himself in a position of power due to a larger design, which involved the veteran administrators going hand in glove with the political powers to oust the Committee of Administrators, especially Vinod Rai, who had over and again stood his ground and didn't do them much favours through the course of his tenure. It's not like he and those under him, didn't make mistakes. Even on the day of filing the nominations, the electoral officer was absent and the man appointed to collect the nomination on his behalf didn't have an authority letter. The mistakes of his and his colleagues were under the lens of the unofficial legal team of the ousted administrators. And the rivals within the BCCI and outside used them to good effect.

Rai's job was never going to be easy and against the clout of powerful men across the cricket and political spectrum of the country, the difficulty only amplified. He refused to cave in despite constant efforts to hold him down.

But he wasn't the only one doing so. At the other end was Srinivasan, who was leading the battle on behalf of the state associations across the country, or as they like to call it - 'the lovers of cricket who did yeoman service to the game'. The start of the entire saga was the spot-fixing and betting scandal that broke out during IPL 2013, with a little throwback to the Lalit Modi-Srinivasan rivalry. Srinivasan's 'cricket enthusiast' defense of his son-in-law and the refusal to resign from his position as the president of BCCI then eventually invited trouble and bad press for him. The Supreme Court got involved, his rivals joined in and an entire structure was designed to not just throw him and his ilk out but also to render their powers ineffective in the cricket system.

But Srinivasan was not to give in so easily. He too, much like Rai, took on powerful forces, and was at the forefront of uniting the cricket bodies in most parts of the country. In the end, it was all about who would blink first. Neither Srinivasan nor Rai did. Yet, the walk back to the BCCI office was a sign that Srinivasan had won the three-year long messy power struggle, which at so many points had just become an ego fight, with both factions crusading with the same PR note - 'for the love of the game'. But this wasn't quite the triumphant return that Srinivasan would have imagined. For it comes with a very strong caveat.

He's after all not only had to join in consensus for Ganguly to become the president after lobbying heavily in favour of Brijesh Patel, but he's also failed to get any of his trusted men in the three most important positions of the board - president, secretary and treasurer: all of which had been eventually influenced by BJP. Thus, the possibility that he would try to create another faction overnight wasn't completely ruled out either, even by those close to the development. It has happened earlier, and with Srinivasan's famed adamance and the need to be in power, it wouldn't have been a surprise.

Explaining Srinivasan's love to be in a position of power, one of the long time administrators of BCCI had said soon after Justice Lodha made his recommendations: "Srinivasan is my friend but I had also urged him to step down (after the betting scandal). But the problem is, he is adamant. He wouldn't listen. He always felt that if he stepped down, he would lose power and will not be able to get that back again."

But in 2019, Srinivasan has put on a new avatar - probably willing to be a little less powerful, but still in control. One of the sources in the know says, "It might seem from the outside that he has lost a bit of power. But even he knows it won't make sense to take on BJP right now. And the main aim anyway was to throw CoA out. So, he has taken a step back and found the most effective way around this. He has chosen a better bargain. This is not the Srinivasan of old who won't budge from what he wants."

What he gets out of this bargain remains to be seen. As of the current rules, he is not eligible to be BCCI's representative to the ICC. But the preparations to field him for that is believed to have started.

. ©Cricbuzz

He's not the only one who is set to gain from the rule changes, if it happens. Though Ganguly and Jay Shah are set to hold their respective offices only for a few months as things stand now, there's a possibility that could change. Thus, while the world outside might be sympathising over the '10-month tenure', people within are quite at ease.

In whatever manner the political dynamics have worked, for Ganguly, the turn of events has put him in a position of power. He likes responsibility, and as a captain or even in his short tenure as an administrator with CAB, he has been proactive in bringing changes. He earns trust well, understands the requirements of the game, and like on Monday, talks cricket first. It's the image the new faction wanted to portray for the 'reformed BCCI', and Ganguly has fit that bill perfectly.

But what remains an interesting trend to follow is how Ganguly gives back in the bargain. Him clinching the president's post can be seen as a victory for the Anurag Thakur-led group with a larger political angle connected. But he has often been a man of his own mind, and has changed allegiance for convenience in the past - within cricket and even politically.

Nonetheless, whatever happens from here, for now the old guard are back. This time, with their kids. For the love of the game.

© Cricbuzz

Share Tweet





COMMENTS





LATEST NEWS




UAE hit with match-fixing suspensions ahead of T20 Qualifiers

3h ago





Bopara to leave Essex after 18 years

3h ago





Ahsan Ali, Mohammad Hasnain help Sindh secure narrow win

4h ago





Objections raised over MPCA selection committees

4h ago





Yashasvi Jaiswal becomes youngest to register List-A double ton

4h ago





Chris Tremain pens three-year deal with Sydney Thunder

16h ago





More News





MOBILE SITE & APPS

m.cricbuzz.com

Android

iOS





FOLLOW US ON

facebook

twitter

youtube

Pinterest





COMPANY

Careers

Advertise

Privacy Policy

Terms of Use

Cricbuzz TV Ads





© 2019 Cricbuzz.com, Times Internet Limited. All rights reserved | The Times of India | Navbharat Times





