

Badminton Instruction

Badminton is a great game to get involved in and badminton instruction
can be simple when laid out in a clear and concise manner.

  --
  --

The interest in starting to become involved in the game of badminton can
often be abandoned due to the lack of easy direction provided for many
beginners. Here you will find a simple and easy step by step instruction
for playing badminton.
Every game of badminton involves SERVING, OFFENSE AND DEFENSE. The game
is played to score points on your opponent or opponents, depending on
whether you are playing a game of singles or doubles. A singles
badminton game is you against another player and a doubles game consists
of you and a partner playing against two other competitors.
The first step in badminton instruction will be to decide who will get
the starting serve. This is usually done with the flip of a coin or some
other random selection process. After the serve is decided the team that
has won the starting serve will serve the shuttlecock or "bird" across
the net to the opposing team.
THE BEGINNING SERVE IS ALWAYS UNDERHAND AND SERVED FROM THE RIGHT SIDE
OF THE COURT so you will need to situate your play to serve from this
point. The serve also needs to be aimed to land diagonally from the
serve point so you will want the serve to end up across the net on the
left side of the opposing teams court.
After the shuttlecock is served the match will remain in play sending
the shuttle over the net with one hit per opposing team. If the shuttle
lands for any reason on the court of the team that did not serve a point
is awarded to the serving team.
You can only score a point if you are the serving team. If the shuttle
comes to rest on the court of the serving team the opponents have won
the next serve and the chance to score a point by stopping play on the
opposite side of the court.
As you rally the shuttle from one side of the net to the other you will
want to do all possible to return it every time without a second hit or
the shuttle landing on the court. Either of these will result in a point
for the serving team or send the serve to the opposing team depending on
which side of the net the shuttle comes to rest.
Other ways that the serving team will score points is if the non-serving
team hits the shuttle out of bounds on the other side of the net. If the
non-serving team or player hits the shuttle over the net and out of the
marked boundaries on the court the serving team gains a point. If the
serving team sends the shuttle over the net and out of the marked
boundaries the rally is stopped and the serve is then given to the
opposing team.
The game of badminton is usually played in these sets of rallies to the
score of 15. The first team or player to reach 15 points wins the match.
Most games according to official badminton instruction are played in
games of three and the best two out of three games wins the match.
However the International Badminton Federation has adopted a new scoring
system called the Badminton 21 points scoring system.
With the new scoring system eventually all badminton games will grow to
be played in the new standard. The 21 points system has changed the
scoring system to the first team to reach 21 points wins the game. Every
time a rally is won the rally winning team adds one point to their
score.
If there is an instance where the score becomes tied 20 to 20 the side
scoring the next 2 consecutive points will win the game. If the score
reaches 29 to 29 with no winner which ever team wins the 30th point will
win the game.

  