Badminton Content Management System

Badminton content management system is a system of computer software to
manage all contents related to badminton.

  --
  --

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  It is possible to control and edit badminton documents, facilitate
  auditing and adopt proper timeline management with badminton content
  management system.
  Badminton content management system can be in the following forms:
  1. Web content management system.
  2. Document management system.
  3. Single source content management system.
  4. Workflow type for publication of badminton related articles.
  5. The work of a staff organization for newspaper editorials regarding
  badminton.
  Among the types of badminton content management systems available, the
  web content management system is the most versatile and recent. It
  provides the following special facilities:
  1. Management of documents related to badminton.
  2. Ability to template badminton contents automatically.
  3. Upgradation to current web standards automatically.
  4. Smooth management of badminton related workflow.
  5. Ability to easily edit badminton contents.
  6. Improvement in function of the existing site by easy modification.
  With badminton web content management system, it is possible to control
  and manage large collections of HTML documents and their related images
  covering the various aspects of badminton. The following details can be
  done easily and stored efficiently:
  1. Publishing news.
  2. News articles.
  3. Players' manuals.
  4. Coaching manuals.
  5. Rules and regulations of badminton.
  6. Badminton equipment details.
  7. Equipment specifictations.
  8. Ranking details.
  9. Player profiles.
  10. Events calender.
  In addition, BADMINTON CONTENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM enables:
  1. Segregation and allotment of work and responsibilities related to
  badminton to different people and organisations.
  2. Compilation of badminton related multimedia details and documents.
  3. Knowledge of all important and vital users and their roles in
  managing badminton related content.
  4. Searching and managing different versions of a single content
  pertaining to various aspects of badminton.
  5. Alerting people who are managing badminton content regarding the
  changes in content like events and allotted tasks.
  6. Converting the badminton content to a repository to facilitate
  content access.
  Recently, badminton web content systems have developed features like
  community blogging, community building, online calenders,
  personalization and even real time analysis in website. Such advanced
  features enable one to:
  1. Build separate online badminton communities for blogging, threaded
  discussions, message boards and participating in forums.
  2. Analyse website regarding the life cycle of visitors to the website.
  3. Increase web customer hits with web alerts and subscriptions.
  4. Enable online personalization and portal building.
  5. Convert the website into a street with high speed net traffic in
  both ways.
  6. Associate with related and compliant badminton sites.

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

