Badminton Essentials
Badminton essentials are going to include the main points that you need
to know before you get involved in the great sport of badminton.

  --
  --

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Many people who are not already badminton fans or avid players believe
  that badminton is a simple sport of knocking a funny looking 'ball'
  over a net. Honestly there is much more to this wonderful sport! It is
  often thought of much like tennis and though it may look the same it is
  quite different in many respects.
  Some very important information to know about badminton is that it is a
  true sport. It is recognized nationally and through the Olympics. As
  with any other competitive sport there are defensive and offensive
  maneuvers that one must learn in order to play a competitive game of
  badminton.
  Badminton is also a sport that you MUST BE IN GOOD PHYSICAL SHAPE TO
  PLAY, especially given some of the opponents that you will encounter if
  you become serious about the sport. Other essential aspects of
  badminton that will be important to understand are about the equipment
  needed to play and other subtitles that will affect your decision of
  whether badminton is the right game for you.
  One of the essentials that many do not consider when looking at
  badminton for a new sport or hobby is that it is always played indoors.
  This may not seem important to some but if you are looking for a sport
  you will be enjoying out of doors then this is not it.
  Badminton is played indoors because of the light weight shuttlecock
  that is used in play. This is the item that is hit back and forth
  across the net. Because of the very light weight and shape of the
  shuttlecock, wind greatly affects the game of badminton and even a
  slight breeze can hinder play.
  BADMINTON IS ALSO A SPORT THAT USES EQUIPMENT THAT IS ESSENTIAL TO YOUR
  PLAY. Aside from having a shuttlecock, you will need a light weight
  badminton racket, a quality net and often you will want to have back up
  equipment pieces or extra of all of these.
  When learning to play badminton you will find that there are strategies
  for both the defensive and offensive side of the game. Because of this
  badminton is also a game that requires practice and thought to how you
  will challenge your opponent.
  There are a variety of trick shots or deceptive shots that will help to
  improve your game as well as hone your abilities to out play your
  opponent through the art of deception. Badminton essentials include all
  of these aspects and they are easy to find information on through
  articles and blogs on the Internet to in depth books that will bring a
  great amount of knowledge on how to practice and prepare yourself in
  this sport.
  Badminton is a sport that does require you to be in good physical
  condition. How good your condition must be will greatly depend on your
  intentions for playing. There are many people that play badminton
  merely as a hobby to get into shape, exercise or for stress relief. For
  these purposes you will need to be moderately healthy, with the ability
  to move across the court quickly to give your opponent a fair game.
  IF YOU ARE LOOKING INTO BADMINTON ON A MORE COMPETITIVE LEVEL SUCH AS
  PLAYING IN TOURNAMENTS OR EVEN PROFESSIONALLY YOU WILL NEED TO UP YOUR
  HEALTH CONDITION CONSIDERABLY. To play badminton professionally you
  will need to be in excellent condition and continue to shape your body
  as well as the way you mentally play this highly energetic sport.
  Players that are interested in playing competitively in tournaments and
  other arenas will do extensive conditioning, weight training, study of
  offense and defense, and practice their game to the point of perfection
  including their serves. Let's face it without practice in any
  competitive sport you will not rise to the occasion or in this case the
  game to out play your opponents.

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

  